README.md, before:

# ESP32 Partition Builder Web Application

The web application is [here](https://thelastoutpostworkshop.github.io/microcontroller_devkit/esp32partitionbuilder/).

## Youtube Tutorial
[<img src="https://github.com/thelastoutpostworkshop/images/blob/main/Custom%20Partitions.png" width="300">](https://youtu.be/EuHxodrye6E)


## Troubleshooting

> Do not forget to set the flash size correctly in the board options in the Arduino IDE or Arduino Workshop Extension for Visual Studio Code.

If for some reason the flash size is not avalaible in the board options you may need to adjust the maximum upload size in your boards definition.  
The IDE has no way to read the custom partition, see this [issue](https://github.com/espressif/arduino-esp32/issues/9831). 

By default many of the custom paritions in boards definition have a 16MB max upload size, so if your board has less than 16MB flash memory, for example 4MB is typical, the compiler will report a wrong space occupied by your sketch.

To fix this, you have to edit the Espressif boards.txt file, which is normally located in <br>`[your drive]\[your name]\AppData\Local\Arduino15\packages\esp32\hardware\esp32\[esp32 core version]`

This is a very large file and you need to search for your specific board and change the line (here for the ESP32S3 Dev Module) :<br>`esp32s3.menu.PartitionScheme.custom.upload.maximum_size=16777216`<br>
to<br>`esp32s3.menu.PartitionScheme.custom.upload.maximum_size=4194304`<br>
for a microcontroller with 4MB flash memory.

> When boards are updated by the IDE or you uninstall and reinstall it, you will have to redo your changes.

## Contributors

Contributors are welcomed! If you want to submit pull requests, [here is how you can do it](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/exploring-projects-on-github/contributing-to-a-project).

**Recommended IDE Setup**
The recommended IDE setup is [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) + [Vue - Official extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Vue.volar). 

**Project Setup**

```sh
npm install
```

**Compile and Hot-Reload for Development**

```sh
npm run dev
```

Commit message:

If you use Wi-Fi, BLE, or Preferences → an NVS partition is mandatory

README.md, after:

# ESP32 Partition Builder Web Application

The web application is [here](https://thelastoutpostworkshop.github.io/microcontroller_devkit/esp32partitionbuilder/).

## Youtube Tutorial
[<img src="https://github.com/thelastoutpostworkshop/images/blob/main/Custom%20Partitions.png" width="300">](https://youtu.be/EuHxodrye6E)


## Troubleshooting

> Do not forget to set the flash size correctly in the board options in the Arduino IDE or Arduino Workshop Extension for Visual Studio Code.

> If you use Wi-Fi, BLE, or Preferences → an NVS partition is mandatory

If for some reason the flash size is not avalaible in the board options you may need to adjust the maximum upload size in your boards definition.  
The IDE has no way to read the custom partition, see this [issue](https://github.com/espressif/arduino-esp32/issues/9831). 

By default many of the custom paritions in boards definition have a 16MB max upload size, so if your board has less than 16MB flash memory, for example 4MB is typical, the compiler will report a wrong space occupied by your sketch.

To fix this, you have to edit the Espressif boards.txt file, which is normally located in <br>`[your drive]\[your name]\AppData\Local\Arduino15\packages\esp32\hardware\esp32\[esp32 core version]`

This is a very large file and you need to search for your specific board and change the line (here for the ESP32S3 Dev Module) :<br>`esp32s3.menu.PartitionScheme.custom.upload.maximum_size=16777216`<br>
to<br>`esp32s3.menu.PartitionScheme.custom.upload.maximum_size=4194304`<br>
for a microcontroller with 4MB flash memory.

> When boards are updated by the IDE or you uninstall and reinstall it, you will have to redo your changes.

## Contributors

Contributors are welcomed! If you want to submit pull requests, [here is how you can do it](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/exploring-projects-on-github/contributing-to-a-project).

**Recommended IDE Setup**
The recommended IDE setup is [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) + [Vue - Official extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Vue.volar). 

**Project Setup**

```sh
npm install
```

**Compile and Hot-Reload for Development**

```sh
npm run dev
```
